Add "Unable to decrypt attribute apiKey" to the alerting troubleshooting docs (#101315)
elastic/kibana: docs/user/alerting/alerting-troubleshooting.asciidoc

Have a question? Contact us in the https://discuss.elastic.co/[discuss forum].

[float]
[[rule-fails-to-decrypt-api-key]]

> === Failing to decrypt apiKey

Author: Renamed to `Rule cannot decrypt apiKey`.

*Problem*:

The rule fails to execute and has an `Unable to decrypt attribute "apiKey"` error.

*Solution*:

> This error happens when the `xpack.encryptedSavedObjects.encryptionKey` value changed since creating the rule. Depending on the scenario, there are different ways to solve this problem:

Reviewer: This describes the problem in scenario 1, but not necessarily scenario 2. Maybe a more general description of the problem would be something like `This error happens the `xpack.encryptedSavedObjects.encryptionKey` value used to create the rule does not match the value used during rule execution`?

Author: ++ I went ahead and changed the wording.

> * Suppose the value in `xpack.encryptedSavedObjects.encryptionKey` was manually changed, and the previous encryption key is still known. In that case, any previous encryption key needs to be part of the <decryption only key, encryption-key-rotation>.

Reviewer: Is this meant to be a link? I think you need double brackets to linkify it.

Reviewer 2: It should be double brackets, and the contents is in the wrong order: 

<<encryption-key-rotation, decryption only key>>

But the text "decryption only key" doesn't make sense to me.

Author: Yeah, it was meant to be a link, though I changed to go to the kibana yml settings docs: https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/current/security-settings-kb.html#xpack-encryptedSavedObjects-keyRotation-decryptionOnlyKeys

> * Suppose another {kib} instance with a different encryption key connects to the cluster. In that case, it probably created a rule with a different encryption key. Ensuring the encryption keys between all the {kib} instances are the same is necessary, and setting <decryption only keys, encryption-key-rotation> for previously used encryption keys.

Reviewer: Same comment about the link.

Author: Thanks! I went ahead and fixed it.

> * Suppose another {kib} instance with a different encryption key connects to the cluster. In that case, it probably created a rule with a different encryption key. Ensuring the encryption keys between all the {kib} instances are the same is necessary, and setting <decryption only keys, encryption-key-rotation> for previously used encryption keys.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Suppose another {kib} instance with a different encryption key connects to the cluster. In that case, it may be trying to run the rule using a different encryption key than what the rule was created with. Ensuring the encryption keys between all the {kib} instances are the same is necessary, and setting <decryption only keys, encryption-key-rotation> for previously used encryption keys.
```

Reviewer 2: Maybe you don't need the second sentence "In that case, .."  because it is explained as part of the solution.

Author: As discussed with @gchaps offline, we kept the sentence but changed the wording slightly.

Have a question? Contact us in the https://discuss.elastic.co/[discuss forum].

[float]
[[rule-cannot-decrypt-api-key]]
=== Rule cannot decrypt apiKey

*Problem*:

The rule fails to execute and has an `Unable to decrypt attribute "apiKey"` error.

*Solution*:

This error happens when the `xpack.encryptedSavedObjects.encryptionKey` value used to create the rule does not match the value used during rule execution. Depending on the scenario, there are different ways to solve this problem:

[cols="2*<"]
|===

| If the value in `xpack.encryptedSavedObjects.encryptionKey` was manually changed, and the previous encryption key is still known.

> | Ensure any previous encryption key is part of the <<encryption-key-rotation, decryption only key>>.

Reviewer 2: Is "decryption only key" the correct wording?

Author: As discussed offline, I will try `Ensure any previous encryption key is included in the keys used for decryption only.`.

| If another {kib} instance with a different encryption key connects to the cluster.

> | It might be trying to run the rule using a different encryption key than what the rule was created with. Ensure the encryption keys between all the {kib} instances are the same is necessary, and setting <<encryption-key-rotation, decryption only keys>> for previously used encryption keys.

Reviewer 2: What does "it" refer to to?  
"setting decryption only keys for previously used encryption keys."  Is that correct?

```suggestion
| It might be trying to run the rule using a different encryption key than what the rule was created with. Ensure the encryption keys among all the {kib} instances are the same, and setting <<encryption-key-rotation, decryption only keys>> for previously used encryption keys.
```

Author: "it" refers to "The other Kibana instance", I went ahead and replaced the wording with that for your re-review.

| If other scenarios don't apply.

> | Generate a new API key for the rule by disabling/enabling the rule.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Generate a new API key for the rule by disabling or enabling the rule.
```

Author: Hmm, the steps I'm trying to describe here is to disable then enable the rule. Maybe `Generate a new API key for the rule by disabling then enabling the rule`?
